Media queries module (#31903)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_media_queries/using_media_queries/index.md

### Testing for multiple queries

You can use a comma-separated list of media queries to apply styles when the user's device matches any one of various media types, features, or states.

The following rule will apply its styles if the user's device has either a minimum height of 680px _or_ is a screen device in portrait mode:

```css
@media (min-height: 680px), screen and (orientation: portrait) {
  /* … */
}
```

In this example, if the user is printing to a PDF and the page height is 800px, the media query returns true because the first query component, the page has a height fo `680px` or taller, is true.
Likewise, if a user is on a smartphone in portrait mode with a viewport height of 480px, the media query returns true because the second query component is true.

### Inverting a query's meaning

> The `not` keyword inverts the meaning of a single media query. It only negates the specific media query it is applied to, negating the _entire_ media query. This means it will not apply to every media query in a comma-separated list of media queries. Rather, each `not` applies to the single query in the comma-separated list of media queries, applying to all the features within that single query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `not` keyword inverts the meaning of a single media query. For example...INCLUDE THE DESCRIPTION OF THE SINGLE MEDIA QUERY "NOT" EXAMPLE CURRENTLY AT THE BOTTOM OF THE SECTION, HERE

EXAMPLE CODE HERE

Note that `not` only negates the specific media query it is applied to — in a comma-separated list of media queries, each `not` applies to the single query it is contained within, applying to all the features within that single query. For example NOW DESCRIBE A COMMA-SEPARATED LIST EXAMPLE WITH A SINGLE NOT, TO SHOW WHAT YOU MEAN

EXAMPLE CODE HERE
```

Reviewer: Sorry for the weird suggestion comment here - it is not really meant to be applied, but instead show you what structure I think should be used. I just found the section strange - it shows the simplest example at the end rather than the start, and then explains the comma-separated example weirdly, repeating itself about three times and then not showing an actual example.

> To negate a single feature within a media query, use `not()`. The `not()` functional notation logical operator encompassing a media feature negates only that feature within the query.

Reviewer: I think this line could then be deleted too. It also seems to repeat what was said above.

Author: not a functional notation either, just parenthesis. oops.

The following rule contains two media queries. The block's styles will apply if either the user's device has a height of 680px or more _or_ is if the browser viewport is in portrait mode (the viewport height is greater than the viewport width):

```css
@media (min-height: 680px), screen and (orientation: portrait) {
  /* … */
}
```

In this example, if the user is printing to a PDF and the page height is 800px, the media query returns true because the first query component — which tests whether the viewport has a height of `680px` or more — is true.
Likewise, if a user is on a smartphone in portrait mode with a viewport height of 480px, the media query returns true because the second query component is true.

In a comma-separated list of media queries, the individual media queries end at the comma or, in the case of the last media query in the list, at the opening bracket (`{`).

### Inverting a query's meaning

The `not` keyword inverts the meaning of a single media query. For example, the CSS styles in this media query will apply to everything _except_ printed media:

```css
@media not print {
  /* … */
}
```

> The `not` negates only the media query it is applied to. The `not`, without parenthesis, negates all the features within the media query in which it is contained. This means, in a comma-separated list of media queries, each `not` applies to the single query it is contained within, applying to _all_ the features within that single query. In this example, the `not` applies to the first media query that concludes at the comma:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `not` negates only the media query it is applied to. The `not`, without parenthesis, negates all the features within the media query in which it is contained. This means, in a comma-separated list of media queries, each `not` applies to the single query it is contained within, applying to _all_ the features within that single query. In this example, the `not` applies to the first media query, which concludes at the first comma:
```

```css
@media not screen and (color), print and (color) {
  /* … */
}
```

The above query is evaluated like this:

```css
@media (not (screen and (color))), print and (color) {
  /* … */
}
```

> Both examples are valid. Media conditions can be grouped by wrapping them in parentheses `()` which can then be nested within a condition the same as a single media query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both examples are valid. Media conditions can be grouped by wrapping them in parentheses (`()`). These groups can then be nested within a condition the same as a single media query.
```
